Luke here at the art Boys YouTube
channel and welcome to Middleton Island
Alaska for the next 3 days me and my
boys are going to be traveling to this
remote island in the Gulf of Alaska to
explore abandoned military bases catch
and cook feral rabbits surf fish from
the beach explore World War II
shipwrecks and tag along with biologists
studying Birds
[Music]
wish that I could stay wish for this
moment to never go
away but it's all in my mind and though
I know that there is nothing to
find you're beautiful sight in the
Su night that's
right and you can't put up a fire
in the
M
light welcome to Middleton
[Music]
Island should we go explore and find a
campsite
yeah say hi oh hi my this is my son
Tommy and Nathan and I'm Luke by the way
are you full-time are you grad students
or what are you
students only a few people ever come to
Middleton Island the FAA has a weather
station here so once a month a crew
comes to do maintenance and there's a
team of biologists studying birds out
here and those two ladies on the
four-wheeler are biologists and they
offered to give us a tour of their
research facility
see some rabbit poo rumor has it this
island is infested with feral rabbits so
Tommy brought a little air rifle oh look
at this oh look at that it's a it's a
jaw oh we got so lucky on the weather
the Gulf of Alaska is not known for
being
gentle here look at this it's all ship
wreck yeah it's an old landing
craft do you guys know how this boat got
all the way up here 1964 there was a
massive earthquake the second biggest
ever recorded in the history of man and
during that earthquake Middleton Island
Rose 12 ft out of the ground all the
shoreline below these Bluffs didn't
exist before
oh rabbit you just saw a
rabbit there's wood here there's rabbits
to hunt the waterers right there so we
go fishing I think this might be a good
spot to camp yeah I think maybe over
here yeah I'm going to get all the Rocks
off all
right o we got it
so you've got a couple options this is a
sliced ham wrap or we can do hot
dog that's
good we got lunch in us I think it's
time to explore the island
so this right here is part of the FAA
facility here on Middleton Island it's
mostly a weather station and pretty much
all the commercial flights that go from
Asia and North America come up through
the Gulf of Alaska so this weather
station keeps an eye on all the weather
within a 250 M radius helps keep a lot
of people
safe oh just saw another
rabbit so another thing interesting
about Middleton island is there's an
abandoned military base on this island
and you can see the birds have taken
over oh look at all this equipment it's
just sitting in
here look at this old water
fountain oh and a dead bird this is a
very strong smell of seafood and Bird
poo
I won't yeah car I'm really worried
about you guys stepping on a nail in
here oh here's the
bathrooms all the power
boxes got be so careful I don't want to
step on a nail or something out here
oh my goodness that building is full of
gold what stop I see one right
there hold on hold
on I just saw one hop over there Tom I
know it's just a tiny B
oh there's one right there see him he
just look at look at n look at oh he's
so close he was so close see him oh
there's a bunch right in
here it's my favorite type of hunting
lots of shooting and no
gutting okay you got that here you hold
on to
the he's in between those two generators
in the end these rabbits we're hunting
are not wild rabbits they're actually
feral they were released here on the
island and they have no natural
Predators there's no other mammals here
on this island so there's just tons and
tons of these rabbits and the rabbits do
compete with some of the birds for Den
locations how gun is come up
here see it can you see this can you see
him right
here other one's just sitting right
there see him do you see
him get
him okay go wait wait just wait wait
wait he'll stop he'll stop he'll stop
get him now get him now see him he'll
stop rabbits always stop to see if
you're chasing
him hey Tom yeah Tom you
ready oh there he
is we should check that out
okay oh there he is he was under there
there he is I can see him him take off
look at that think that's an eagle
feather right
[Music]
there you got him Tom okay now go real
slow oh my goodness I got him there it
you don't want him to bite
you holy well there you go Tommy I'm
keeping the P just is it that fuzzy if I
get one I have the P you got to hold him
okay Nathan your turn
well there you go Tom high
five oh now I got to get a rabbit I make
sure he doesn't got any fleas or
something it looks pretty clean he's a
little bit he's a young one he'll be
tasty look at that that's that's a bit
of like a portapotty that's a
four-wheeler oh there's a snow machine
in there looks like people have just
been using that as a garbage
heat all these buildings are part of the
old Air Force Base it used to be here on
Middleton Tom's pretty decided to show
his rabbit off to some of the
biologists
nice done in one go yeah
yeah there you
go all
righty you want to see his rabbit oh
where you where you from I'm from
Japan I didn't think I was going to get
to practice right Japanese
today I'll see you
around there's another one just see
three rabbits right across the road oh
there's another
one seven yeah sure
that's what going good uh we wanted to
we wanted to show you our trophy here I
got it uh right by the uh military
base oh oh my goodness look at all these
these little little girl
helmets Yeah
so all of these these helmets washed up
so this is where all the FAA guys live
hey how
youo all right you guys take
care it
goes those guys just sitting in there
with their star leak watching the NBA
Finals normally there's only two F guys
but they got a little bit of a project
going on they've got extra crew in
here oh see it right there see the Buddy
there's there's two of them
oh there's one right there there's one
see him right there you see how many
there are it's getting closer to
Sunset oh there's one I see him I see
him he's right there there a big one go
get
him I hit it I think you hit him
buddy oh that's a big one look at the
size of that guy way than Tom you got it
oh this is heavy though she is heavy
here Tommy you guys want this is just a
work out killing that is a chunky
rabbit
yeah all right I think that is a fat
rabbit there this backpack is heavy
there's a whole lot of rabbit in
here not a very big island it's only
about 5 miles long but all in all we did
uh probably close to 10 miles today not
bad for two little boys we need to find
a cutting
board that is a fat
rabbit
definitely okay
to do you got to take your knife two is
you got to scream all this junk
off you you let
me
[Music]
why see okay I can't that's how you you
get it all on a spit right there is this
good I don't no I I vacuum sealed some
delicious steaks with a little bit of
butter and rosemary we're going to put
those in here
here Nathan's rabbit's so fat it's
taking forever to cook over the fire so
I think we're going to go stew
[Music]
it all right
plate
shne
got you guys pretty full yeah let's get
ready for bed we do some dessert in bed
okay took the dishes down to the ocean
and uh managed to get my shoes pretty
wet yeah hopefully my my shoes will dry
overnight Nathan where'd you go I can't
see you you're
camouflaged you no farting in my good
sleeping bags okay you guys are probably
too tired for dessert no no then we'll
pull out the uh chocolate caramel
ganache brownies how about that oh my
goodness yeah ganache is basically
decadent fudge what do you think you
like ganach I love it we're going to see
you guys in the morning we've got a lot
of exploring to do all
right Dad good morning D good morning
Nathan I get up and make
breakfast it's 8:00 in the morning and I
already need sunscreen the Sun is is
intense up here in Alaska but it's up
for so long that you can get burned
really
easy
oh we're going to have some biscuits and
gravy so I got some homemade sausage
gravy that I vacuum sealed and froze
just going to go ahead and put it in
some hot water get it all piping
hot here's ready
me thank you
Dad is biscuits and gravy one of your
favorite camping meals such an easy meal
cor one thing I like about this cooking
method is that because the food doesn't
touch the water you can use salt water
and I'm also doing my dishes with it and
it can get all nasty and it doesn't
matter cuz it ain't going to touch my
food got all
this you guys ready let's go explore the
island some more do you want to just
push it up the hill yeah you can see
these Bluffs that go the length of both
sides of the island that's where the
shore was before the earthquake in a
period of 5 minutes during an earthquake
all of that land came up out of the
ocean and this island doubled in size
can't believe how amazing that would
have been to watch both my parents were
in Alaska during that earthquake and
they've got some crazy stories
let's go stop over here there's a
shipwreck on the island so we're going
to ask some of the biologists if they
can get us directions to how to get to
it over here that looks like a sombrero
oh yeah yeah but I I got some cherries
I'm assuming fresh fresh fruit
is just make make sure to share as best
you can well anyway I'll see you guys at
two and thank you very much awesome yeah
have a great time you thank you I think
I heard most of these researchers have
been out here since uh May so by this
point they're probably craving fruit and
vegetables we've probably seen 15
bunnies already they're just everywhere
they're a different species of animal
than the native Snowshoe hair which we
see on the mainland of
Alaska you guys tired
yes you tired you guys really that tired
yeah all right you just sit here for a
second who wants to watch a show and eat
some chocolates me come over here take a
take a seat in the rabbit poop here have
a chocolate covered almond dark and
forbidden Secrets the boys are pretty
tired I think they might be a little
sore from yesterday so we're going to
we're going to take it easy have a
little
cesta this is an old FAA air traffic
control navigation site it's used to
help planes navigate when they're flying
over the Gulf of
Alaska bald eagle up there there's a ton
of of them on the island you guys
feeling better all right you guys ready
yep oh look at this just can't look at
that shipwreck that thing is
huge we got to get down this cliff and
through those marshes
though
I'm I just took one
this shipwreck is from World War II this
is a cargo ship that was being hunted by
a Japanese submarine so the captain ran
the ship ground to avoid being torpedoed
so this shipwreck's been here for about
80 years and now it's turned into a
giant bird
Rookery look at those giant anchors the
chances of us not getting pooped on are
low oh yeah there's a bald eagle nest
way up to the top plenty for him to feed
on down here oh man look at the hole in
that
side you can just hear this Seagle poop
raining around us if one of us had
french fries would' be
dead oh there's so much poop landing
around take
[Music]
cover I that
bar I kind of want to go in here explore
but birds tend to have fleas and lice
and there's just tons of crap on the
ground I'm so afraid if I go in there
I'm going to end up with fleas in my
pants I don't don't want that so badly
oh what did you eat that was huge this
is an
aircraft you know my dad was attacked by
seagulls once yeah they broke his
fishing
rod us right now yeah they are so
bobbing us yeah there's the drive sh
right
there wonder I bet the propeller's over
here that is a big ship you guys are
going to look up in the sky keep your
mouth
closed oh look at that there's a
nest oh there's the propeller well
listen guys are you getting hungry mhm
yeah let's go find some Driftwood and
make a fire we're going to cook some
lunch
steam coming out of what those are what
are I feel like cuckleberry like all the
characters sure I think you know what it
is let my feet dry out a little bit
oh oh there it is look at that see all
these little clam holes what is the clam
yeah little clam holes all over here
will you ever get tired of eating
rabbits got clams look at all the grass
growing on top of the ship it's like a
whole Forest on the
Roof oh we need to keep that for Mom
don't we yes that's a sea urin skeleton
it's a big one too my wife loves
collecting these oh look here's another
one one that
one's right
now oh
you just can't get better weather than
we've had on this
trip there's a lot of bird research that
goes on here in Middleton Island and uh
I'm excited to get a little bit of a
tour all right Nathan you going to stay
here and play with rocks yeah okay right
under the tower is kind of a s
yeah don't look down if you don't like
heights
like we're in the top of this Tower and
these birds have nested all along the
outside and they've built these little
glass windows and doors so they can
access the nests without disturbing the
birds too much and and is this a kitty
wake y every morning we ride down every
bird on the tower so if anyone doesn't
come home you know about it is that a
catch or is it just broken a new broken
leg
you sure write that down yeah so Tom saw
an egg that rolled out of the nest and
broken that's getting written down
that's data they're filing a CPS
report you probably noticed all the eggs
are colored red or blue yeah the red
ones are were the first ones that were
laid the blue is the second oh so that's
you're doing there yeah and the dates
are on the tape oh okay so if you're a
kitty wake the government is watching
you chck but we have one oh you want to
see a baby kid a weake
see look at he's just down right in
there isn't he cute the very first chick
of the year just right down in there
yeah see what colors you
see and his full combo is blue black
silver ow
my what do you think Tom that was pretty
cool wasn't it yeah it
was so this is the myrr house yes so
that's a bird right a bir all
right okay I see it the ones up there
look like flying Penguins I I I wonder
what those are so they're just doing a
little bird survey going up and counting
all the nesting Birds you guys study the
Pu look at the little Clover she's
faking being hurt to try to lure us away
from her nest right oh oh my goodness I
would have never seen it see look at it
it's right
there so so look at how she looks like
she's wounded she's not wounded but see
she's she's trying to get you to go away
from her nest a lot of birds that nest
on the ground will do that like tarmigan
and other birds will try to lure you
away from their nest if you get close
see look how she just keeps flying in
front of us tries to get us to follow
her a huge salmon Berry
Thicket oh those Hol are bird Burrows
yeah oh that's crazy so that's a
rhinoceros oate burrow yes as they land
here this is like their Runway oh I got
you Puffin oh yeah you can see him so
the tufted Puffin the tufted
Puffin so uh we've got this little
measured off location we're going to
walk through it and we're going to
survey for
gness holy crap oh yeah yeah look at
that so the red one I think at some
point is that good oh yeah you just got
swo I just got buzzed oh yeah you a over
your head you want oh so they've been P
oh they're so I see the
beak oh I can see he's pipping he's see
he's cated the little hole out of the
shell you have
[Applause]
one look at
that that's that's really cute
wait and you jar them to keep them
fresh
them9 pooping would you want to just
gently hold him try not to drop him
there go go look at that
guy there you oh yeah he pooped on me
yeah me it's so
warm I wa and
measure there you go little guy want to
go hang with your
brother coming
toow so apparently these are Glaucus
Wing gos I think glus might mean pale
this pretty this is pretty fun well
thank you so much for showing that to us
that was so cool I think I better take
off though I got some Tide to hit so
than you that was really fun all right
Tom was that cool
yes oh yeah knocked out oh you might
have to carry him out of
here oh
yeah Dam
Nathan oh
yeah hey
Nathan thanks for letting us crash your
party
here if you guys would like to learn
more about this research I'm going to
put a link in the video description
below to the organization that's funding
and spearheading a lot of This research
here on this island you can just go to
Camp I'll get the water
filter a couple liters of water and then
we'll have enough water for
tonight we about an hour or so before
hide tied and I really want to do some
fishing
there's some nibbles going
on well my bait's all gone something
keeps stealing my bait so I'm going to
switch to using bait
thread the bait's tied onto the hook
that'll make it really hard for anything
to steal my bait
[Applause]
there we go little baby
sculping
oh oh check it out it's a kelp green
leing look at its mouth he's got a blue
mouth you can eat these and if you were
to G it its flesh is blue neon
blue they're really pretty fish there's
lots of different kelp greenlings and
not all of them have that blue meat all
right let's just keep checking it out
see what
happens well Tommy do you want to start
the
fire here's my fire
bag what's on you got it here
[Applause]
woohoo I had another fish on and my lead
got snagged up and broke off I think
it's time to make some dinner anyways
got some vacuum sealed bread pudding I
got one more steak going to throw those
in the
pot we in the Big Blue pod
there you go like that Ramen Nathan oh I
almost bed my toes so you may cut up
some steak put in
your I had a whole bunch of toppings I
was going to put in our ramen but uh I
forgot I'm back at the house so just
steak and ramen which is pretty darn
good there we go we got a bread pudding
hey you okay here oh that's pretty good
isn't it do you like bread pudding
yes Tommy do you guys want some cookies
and hot chocolate
yes here here's your hot
chocolate and
here the pumpkin cook
it's late it's about 900 p.m. I'm going
to get these kids to bed I'll see you
guys in the morning
all right going to warm up these
[Music]
rolls all right guys up and at him
you said you didn't mine if I we your
shirt yeah go for it where you going to
wear my shirt you're wearing Tommy's
pants in my shirt yeah told him to get
dressed I didn't guess I didn't give him
specifics no that's not
why he K buddy
well now we wait for the plane and I got
a message on my in reach that Becca and
Jacob are going to be on the
plane oh I can hear the plane ah there
it is I can see
it oh good to see
you science
field I
oh Becca I'm so glad you could come I am
glad I could too that was a great flight
well hopefully you guys had a good time
watching this if you enjoyed this as
much as we enjoyed filming it make sure
to click subscribe we'll see you guys
next video if you like that video make
sure to check out the outdoor Boys
YouTube channel where we have hundreds
of videos just like this and if you want
to see our newest Adventures make sure
to click subscribe so you'll get
notifications